Installing Asterisk 1.8, and FreePBX on Ubuntu 10.04 Server
(Lucid Lynx)

1. Download Ubuntu 10.04 Server and burn it to a CD.
2. Put CD in drive of the machine you are going to load and boot to the CD.  Please be aware that this installation will completely erase the hard drive on the target machine.  Also make sure you have a valid Internet connection to the machine.  The installation process will download a lot of files from the repositories.  
3. Once it boots, choose your language.
4. Hit Return on “Install Ubuntu Server” (This will take a few seconds)
5. Select the installer language and hit enter.
6. Select your country and hit enter.
7. The next few screens are self explanatory.
8. You will eventually get to a screen that asks for the hostname.  Enter the hostname you want to use for this machine and hit enter. 
9. If you need to change your time zone, now is the time.
10. Choose your Partitioning method.  I choose “Guided-use entire disk.  I am not a LVM person.
11. Select the disk to Partition and hit enter.
12. Select yes to Partition the drive.  This will wipe out all data and partitions on the drive!!!!  This will partition the drive, format it and install the base operating system. 
13. Enter the name for the login user.  Ubuntu does not use root for a login user.  
14. Enter the username for that user and then the password.  
15. Select whether or not to encrypt the home directory and press enter. 
16. If you use a proxy server to get to the Internet, enter it here and press enter.  Most users will leave this blank.
17. Select how you want to handle updates and press enter. 
18. Select the software you want to install.  I choose OpenSSH here. Use your arrow keys to select and the spacebar to make.  Hit enter when done. 
19. When you are asked to change the MySQL root password (you will be asked 3 times), do not do it.  Just hit enter.  FreePBX will not install correctly if you change this password. 
20. Select type of mail server you are running and hit enter.  I chose “Internet with smarthost” here.
21. Go have some coffee.  This will take a while.  
22. Since you formatted the entire drive earlier, select “Yes” when asked to install the GRUB boot loader...
23. When the CD is ejected, remove it and hit enter. The machine will reboot.
24. Log in with the username and password you entered earlier.
25. Enter the command “sudo -i” (without the quotes) at the command prompt and enter your password again.  You are now in the superuser mode.  
26. Change directory to /usr/src (cd /usr/src)
27. Use wget to get Joe Roper's installer script from the repository.  
28. Use chmod to change the permissions on the installer file to 755 (chmod 755  <name of installer script>)
29. Run the script. (./<name of script>)
30. Press 1 to install the dependencies.  
31. Answer the questions as asked.
32. When it is done, the script will appear.  Select 2 to install asterisk, then choose the version of Asterisk you want and sit back and wait. 
33. You will need to make some choices on what modules you want installed.  I think you can accept the defaults, but I usually make some choices here.  I add the extra sounds and prompts in the various codecs and languages that I use.  